You did it, congratulations,
you now know realtimy things.
I obviously didn't show you all
of the techniques that could have
been done for this.
But I showed you, the ones that I would
use, these are the primary tools that
I would reach for if I had to do
some sort of realtime application.
We spoke a bit about WS,
we spoke about HTTP2.
Two of the more interesting ones that
we didn't talk about, one's WebRTC,
which is like peer to peer connections.
So if you want to have a chat room, but
the traffic is actually going from you
to another user and
it doesn't go through a server, maybe for
privacy reasons, maybe for
scaling reasons, many reasons like that.
There's a spec built into the browser
called WebRTC that allows peer to peer
communication.
A good example that I was informed of
is Twitch uses it quite a bit to get
their latencies down for
a variety of reasons.
And they have a pretty impressive
web scaling from peer to peer so
that they can have users be able to watch
the stream sooner with less bandwidth
overhead, both for
themselves and for other people.
So WebRTC, web realtime communication,
right, that's what it stands for.
But we weren't talking
about peer to peer today.
For the most part,
I don't do a lot of things that
have peer to peer communication.
So, but it's nonetheless a very
cool piece of technology,
you should definitely check it out.
And then there's a new one
from Microsoft called SignalR.
It's actually not available for Node yet.
There's obviously a JavaScript library so
you can use it with ASP.NET and
things like that.
I will say that again, I used to work
at the part of Microsoft that developed
SignalR and I'm very impressed by it.
I wish they had a Node library for it.
And if there had been a Node library,
I would have shown it to you.
But it's like Socket.IO
taken even further,
there's more features built into it.
It's even more resilient.
It has more transport options, it's
a very, very cool piece of technology.
So if you're a C Sharp developer or
something like that,
definitely something that's worth
your time and to check out.
If you've ever heard of Blazor,
which again, I'm not a C Sharp person,
I never written it, but Blazor is the idea
that you can write C sharp basically for
the frontend.
And then they use web assembly to compile
it, so that it can run in the browser.
The connection layer between
a Blazor backend and
a Blazor frontend is done
through SignalR frequently.
What's really cool about that
is they can basically shift
where the code is being executed.
So if you have a really slow client, you
can move all of that code being executed
to the server, it does all
the processing on the server, and
then sends the results down to the client.
And it can kind of move that skill, let's
say, one person has a low-end Android
phone, one person has a brand new iPhone,
the brand new iPhone can do all of
the processing so it sends all of
the code to the iPhone to do it.
On the low-end Android phone,
all processing will be done on server and
the results are sent down to the client.
And that's how they are communicated
over something like SignalR.
So it's cool, you should check it,
especially if you are a C Sharp developer.
In theory, they should someday release a
Node client or a Node library for it, but
that day is not today.
Cool and that's it.
That is the complete intro to realtime.
Before we wrap up, does anyone have any
questions about any realtime things and/or
dating advice that's,
it's good form for that too?
Yeah.
>> Just a recommendation of a resource,
High Performance Browser Networking,
this book helped with browser APIs.
>> Yeah, yeah,
I think it's an O'Reilly book.
I'm sure they talk about a lot of that
kind of even even lower level stuff that I
talked about today.
So, that is a good recommendation.
>> Let's say we have some data
to send from server to browser,
let's say an array of 200 objects.
What solution is better?
Sending a signal of some kind of event
to the browser, and expose this data
on standard HTTP endpoint, or
just send data in the WebSocket message.
I saw different solutions on the Internet
and I don't know which one is correct.
Sending via WebSockets looks much simpler,
is there any reason why not to?
>> Good question.
So the question largely revolves around
this idea of the hybrid approach,
which is basically, and which is a super
valid approach by the way of like,
you have very large payloads.
Or maybe just intensive payloads is
probably a better way of putting it.
Is it better to immediately push
the entire payload onto the client?
Or is it better to just inform the client
with a very lightweight event?
There are resources available for
you to pull.
So I had a couple of thoughts on it and
there's not a right answer here.
There's not just a hard and fast rule,
it's gonna depend on your implementation.
The hybrid model is really nice for
maybe the client doesn't want it.
So let's say it's maybe you have a friend
list that's like 1,000 people long.
It's really expensive to send you the
complete list of all your friends online,
offline, not available, be right back,
right, all that kind of stuff.
Well, if the user is paying,
like friend paying is not open,
it's not super useful to send them
all their friend information.
Then maybe you wanna show them a little
tick mark that says like, hey,
stuff changed, right?
In which case that kind of hybrid model
of, hey, let the client know something's
different but wait for them to pull
the actual information, right?
So I guess kind of the rules that I'm
getting out here would be more around
really how expensive is it to
send that large package of data.
If it's not expensive in
terms of computation,
usually the transport's not
the biggest deal there.
But in terms of computation, if it's not
that expensive, just send it, right?
Simplicity almost always
makes things better.
So the fact you don't have to
do this hybrid push pull model,
it's much better if you just make
it simple and just push it and
let the client do whatever
they want with it.
If it's not that easy, then it makes
sense to do more of the hybrid push pull
models of like send the event and wait for
the client to try and pull it out.
That can make some sense.
So yeah, when you can err on the side
of simplicity, always go for
simplicity in terms of code,
in terms of user experiences, all of that.
When that doesn't work,
then make it a little bit more
complicated to solve your problem, right?